yo what up this is a video answering a
series of questions from one of my
patreon supporters Jackson anyone who
pays the one dollar on patreon gets to
talk to me I often reply in typewritten
form and sometimes I reply by making
videos when I don't reply it's often
because I'm lukewarm on an issue I just
have nothing to say about it sometimes
people ask me for dietary advice and
it's like dude I am NOT the guy to get
into the pros and cons of adding olive
oil to your lima bean salad I'm just I'm
just not the guy to do that there are
other there's so many vegans on YouTube
who either really are experts in
nutrition or claim to be I'm not one of
them so you don't I try not to be rude
but there were some questions who don't
answer
not because they offend me it's not
because I mean this is the funny thing
about the people in the gossip
demi-monde it's never like people asking
for details about my divorce or
something nobody wants to know nobody
wants to talk to me about my divorce you
know it's not evading those kinds of
questions it's normally a question like
you know somebody wants to know about
whether or not lemon juice actually
reduces your rate of cancer or something
it's like dude you know not not in my
lane it's just just not my area of
expertise it's not an area where my
opinion would be valuable but thanks to
her I mean it's flattering thanks for
asking glad you'd like to know my
opinion about olive oil and lemon juice
or whatever all right
so Jackson has sent me a bunch of
questions that are much more political
and therefore much more suitable for an
answer
the first one is do I have any
experience with professor Jordan B
Peterson Jordan B Peterson is a
university professor in Canada who
recently emerged from obscurity into a
kind of internet fame fame on the
Internet is largely arbitrary if not
entirely random in his case as in so
many cases it's really that he made the
leap from old media to new media
so Jordan B Peterson was covered in
Canadian newspapers and on the Canadian
TV news and then he became this huge
figure on the internet so nuts ah'm
Sultan but but very very often fame on
YouTube is an echo of some kind of Fame
or success that is in traditional
broadcast media
nothing wrong with that Jordan B
Peterson because of his fame taking on a
number of issues in terms of political
correctness and specifically the issue
of gender neutral pronouns laws
requiring people to use someone's
preferred pronoun this kind of thing I
did look him up I did try to watch
several of his academic lectures on
history and politics and I have to tell
you long story short this is not because
I I disagree with him politically but to
me he just seems like an imbecile
he seems like a fatuous self-indulgent
idiot who has no idea what original
research in political science really
means or in you know history or politics
would have you and the videos I saw from
him regardless of what his actual PhD is
in they were videos giving long lectures
about you know history and politics they
were in that category
you know he had a video I saw it was a
lecture basically but the history of
communism I know a lot of this guy I got
to tell you it was just idiocy it was
not even at a level that would be
impressive for a high school book report
let alone for a salaried professor but
you mean that's what he does he's gonna
enjoy the little bit of Fame that he has
earned almost at random he's having fun
with it I don't have any hate Meyer for
the guy but I don't want to watch
another video from him ever okay if he
makes a video about veganism I'll
probably watch that out of interest but
I I don't want to hear what the guys to
say so there's another question can you
expand on your commentary on third wave
feminism and its influence on university
campuses so he is referring back to an
earlier video idea that is patreon
exclusive if you're paying the $1 you
can try to scroll back and find that
video or I can give a link um I did an
earlier video in response to the
question I used to get all the time am i
a feminist am i an anti-feminist where
do I stand on that and basically in that
video I pointed out look there's a
really big difference between first wave
feminism
and third wave feminism and basically
what I identify with positively his
first wave feminism and second wave
feminism is okay too but it's third wave
feminism that's
really been a disaster and has really
discredited the good name feminist and I
can compare that to number things you
guys have heard me say many times I'm
really concerned about the conduct of
vegans discrediting the name of veganism
and that's quite a reasonable concern if
you've been around for a while in the
veganism game there are people who
discredit veganism in real life you you
deal with that have misconceptions about
veganism have become popularized by a
you know a subset of veganism or a crazy
minority of vegans iam this has asked me
to expand on third wave feminism and its
influence on university campuses the big
change in my lifetime is that third wave
feminism went from being an ideology of
the students to being an ideologies of
the professor's so back in 1997 I've got
to tell you the world of both university
politics and high school politics was
vitiate 'add by third wave feminist
ideas but at that time back in 1997
those were books that the the edgy hip
rebellious students were reading despite
their professors it was like a sense of
rebelling against your professors or
rebelling against your high school
teachers to read these really extreme
and crazy feminists you know texts like
put it this way at that time the third
wave feminist stuff was in the library
but it wasn't required reading in your
courses right so it's very different at
that time in terms of the spirit it was
grassroots and bottom-up now one of my
girlfriend's just one just one was
really kind of a woman who was
brainwashed by third wave feminism back
in those days so that would have been
like 1994 through 1998 she was into
third wave feminism and she eventually
grew out of it like I remember her
talking to me about how specific claims
that third wave feminists made about
like the history of Europe about the
history of like persecution of witches
and stuff like there were all these
really specific historical claims that
were made in setting up the platform for
this kind of feminist extremism if you
like and one by one she learned that
those
claims were not true like what they were
saying about the persecution of witches
as plenty to say so that was in verse so
I mean at some point she just hit a
tipping point where she realized look if
they're lying about this stuff they'll
lie about anything and I don't even
think she took it much deeper than that
I don't think she liked she didn't get
interested in debunking third wave
feminism she just realized she just
realized it was all [ __ ] during the
years when that girlfriend was with me
because we were together for many years
we did talk about feminism a lot I don't
know I'm gonna be interested me be great
to have her on the show be great to do a
Skype conversation that girlfriend now
now she's married with kids not married
to me she's married to some other guy
which is cool happy for her I'm happy
for him hope to quote a rap lyric go
[ __ ] up his [ __ ] instead of mine I'm
happy I don't have to deal with her
[ __ ] anymore I'm tempted to say more
anyway look you know but I was
interesting because when she was me I
think she was really challenged by my
view on gender in an interesting way
because I have a moderate pragmatic
down-to-earth view of gender politics I
think it's very compatible with first
wave feminism but it was totally
incompatible with what she had been
taught which she had been brainwashed
into by by third wave feminism so that
was a really interesting kind of
contrast that I live with
um but look at that time third wave
feminism was the ideology of the
students from the bottom up and not so
much the ideology the professor's in the
top down so now it's become totally
intolerable because it's it's become the
the ideology that students are forced to
conform to and are graded on right now
obviously that's gonna be different in
every university department in every
University campus you really have to ask
yourself keeping a little real is it
worse having a professor who in that way
forces the students to conform to third
wave feminism than it is to have a
professor who forces the students to
conform to Christianity because that's
incredibly calm
there are literally millions of people
are Christians and thousands and
thousands of professors do that you know
make Christianity part of what defines
their curriculum and what they expect to
students in the classroom and my honest
answer is no I mean third wave feminism
is [ __ ] up but having a professor who
genuinely believes in Catholicism or
Protestantism I think it's easy to
ignore it's easy to treat as invisible
just how that totally destroys the
quality of university education and I
would say the same is true in most cases
of a professor who really believes in
Islam Buddhism sometimes better
sometimes worse I've met some totally
insane professors who believe in
Buddhism a lot of people are [ __ ] up
in Buddhism and it [ __ ] up you know
what their students are getting out of
the classroom experience you virtually
get sure in some cases Buddhism can be
even worse than Christianity but in most
cases it's true most Buddhists just
don't just don't take it that seriously
it's hard it's hard to take some of that
stuff seriously you know like the idea
that a Buddhist monk can magically
teleport up to the heavens and have a
conversation with Indra and then
teleport down to the ground the extent
to which Buddhists do not take their own
religion seriously is proven by the fact
that so few Buddhists actually believe
in indra if you don't know who indra is
[ __ ] google it Indra is part of the
religion of Buddhism he's a huge part of
real Buddhism but nobody believes that
ender anymore so alright so look I know
this is not really the reply you were
hoping for he is third wave feminism
gonna be the death of freedom of
expression but that is my reply is
Christianity on campus the death of
freedom of expression yes it is it
[ __ ] destroyed
how about Islam how about any of these
repressive religions all of them are
worse than third wave feminism even
though third wave feminism is [ __ ] up
there's no way I can see it as being as
negative and nor as durable as those as
those big religions and if you look at
the history of any one campus including
University of Toronto in general you're
gonna find that you know you're gonna
find that those those those religions
have played that warp
and the censoring role and the
not-too-distant past question would you
care to talk more in general terms the
value of postmodern philosophy does it
have any value when standing on its own
or will it inevitably lead people to try
to tear down the hard-won advances of
modern civilization you know I do think
that post-modernism is one of those
categories where you have to deal with
each author on a case by case term you
sorry case by case basis you know like
one person associated with
post-modernism just doesn't have very
much in common with the others
politically or philosophical otherwise
and you know your basic question here is
does it have any value my answer is no
but you know I really try not to waste
people's time you may not believe it
from this video eleven minutes into this
video you may think you're wasting my
[ __ ] time I thought well look you
know um I I saw a post on Twitter
recently from another vegan much younger
than me I think she's 21 and she had a
reading list posted of the books in
political philosophy and veganism that
she was apparently gonna read she was
challenging herself to read in the next
few months of the next year and looking
at these books thinking this is such a
[ __ ] waste your time I mean come
really compared to just hanging out on
YouTube in terms of what's going on in
veganism now like I've been reading a
lot of academic publications on politics
and veganism as you will have noticed
because I've been posting book reviews
um to me that stuff is a waste of time
there was a comment from sargon of akkad
where he was talking about what a great
use of your time it was to read like
jean-jacques Rousseau and uh the
treatise by John Locke and I'm saying
there honestly I mean if I come out of a
political science political philosophy
background and I'm just listening this
thinking this is a complete [ __ ]
waste of people's time what he was
saying about those books the specific
praise he gave them they were great
books for understanding this this and
that x y&z problem in Paul's day I think
it's not true at all yeah I've read all
those books obviously I'm just sitting
there thinking God you know a lot of
these people take it really lightly to
waste somebody's time by telling
to read a book maybe especially if it's
a book that has philosophy on the cover
but no so this is my kv2 saying do I
think postmodern philosophy is worth
reading no but a lot of stuff that other
people think is worth reading I consider
a complete waste of your time
just salience to actually solving
problems keeping it real with you
I mean maybe my standards are very high
maybe in some ways they're very low but
no I I can't think of anything in that
category that I recommend anyone reading
final question does Trump's election
represent a pushback against post
modernist influence I would say no I
would say that Trump's election
represents the completely incoherent
final answer to neoliberalism and I mean
the critique of neoliberalism is what
I've been engaged in since [ __ ] in 1997
in a lot of ways right and it blows my
mind that there is no and what comes
after neoliberalism what's next the
discourse politically has just halted at
neoliberalism and disintegrated it's
bizarre the total lack of imagination of
any political philosophy political
science of any real if just of any
discourse of any debate after
neoliberalism shows this tremendous
paucity of I guess just intelligence in
the last 20 years it's nuts
so I mean Trump in his in his way he
represents a next step after the
collapse of neoliberalism now I can't
call neoliberalism a failure it's not
neoliberalism has been a tremendously
successful political ideology it's one
of the most successful in history of the
world
however it has limitations it has
failings it has both advantages and
disadvantages and remarkably few of my
professors were ever willing to speak in
those terms those kinds of pragmatics
okay let's look at neoliberalism
honestly let's say what is what it's
good at what it's bad at what are the
advantages with the disadvantages how
compare neoliberalism to the government
of Saudi Arabia you [ __ ] kidding
yourself come on Neil
is not that bad people a lot of people
want to demonize it from one perspective
and I don't know I don't even know if
anyone's praising it anymore you know
but neoliberalism had many serious
obvious failings that nobody seems to
have engaged in intelligent critique of
and and you just answer your question
Trump selection Trump was the only guy
on the whole spectrum who was anti
neoliberal who was just not neoliberal
and he didn't even explain why I mean
just totally incoherent way Trump just
says free trade is bad he doesn't even
say for you he says specific free trade
deals are a bad deal he'd rather have
protectionism than a bad deal with
Mexico and there's there's nothing more
say about than that he wants to have
more factory jobs he complains about
unemployment at a time when unemployment
us around only four percent four percent
unemployment in America and 21st century
and you're saying there's too much
unemployment you know Trump was a really
sloppy incoherence critic of
neoliberalism you can't he could put
together a critique from the you know
it's like the same thing with Trump's
position on corruption what does it mean
you says drain the swamp like in a sense
it's a really meaningful reaction to
what became normal in 20 years of
neoliberalism but there's no way I can
even describe this as a critique there's
no way I could even tell you at the time
of his election what was Trump's plan
how was he gonna change the rules for
how elections proceed in the US or how
was he going to eliminate corruption you
just know he doesn't like it you just
know that Trump has been living with it
I know if you guys remember but even
before he became a candidate for
president Trump used to have videos that
were up on YouTube and on you know
Twitter or whatever where Trump was just
ranting about how much he hated these
politicians who asked him for donations
and how corrupt they all were Trump is a
critic of neoliberalism because he was a
part of it and he was pissed off with it
he hated wasting his time and wasting
his money and he hated seeing both sides
the Republicans the Democrats taking
bribes he hated it so and again he hates
the free trade agreements and it's just
an emotional reaction I understand so
it's like
but like there's a there's an onus on us
I really do mean us including me I am a
political scientist I'm a political
philosopher at my incredibly low level
why have we failed to elaborate any kind
of meaningful discourse post neoliberal
political discourse it's just a joke
it's just ridiculous and now I mean
Trump it's I mean you know it's like I
said I mean back when we did the
Canadian elections like one year ago now
or whatever it's not that long ago I was
saying look whatever party actually
takes an anti-war position is gonna win
this election and pretty much nobody did
it I mean you get to a point where some
of these deep assumptions about war
maybe Trump became the anti-war
candidate in the primaries he was
completely pro war but then when he was
running against Hillary Clinton directly
Hillary Clinton was so pro war was so
wanting to expand the bombing of you
know Syrian all the [ __ ] the Trump
became the anti-war candidate so he won
and so he's Pro torture but anti war
it's ridiculous but I mean when when you
let the intellectual caliber of
political discourse drop to this
incredibly low level when you fail to
articulate just disambiguate what the
options and opportunities are in
politics that is part of the role of a
political philosopher of a social engage
philosopher is to look at the murky mess
of a situation and say look people these
are our options these are our choices
you know you've got a mess of
information and I'm gonna clarify for
you what really are the Forks in the
road ahead of us we have had far too
little of that going on last twenty
years and in that incredibly
intellectually impoverished climate
Donald Trump of all people ended up
being the anti the anti-war candidate
and the anti neoliberal candidate and
the Pro pourer candidate the Pro working
man came the pro working class candidate
Pro factory worker it's completely
surreal it's completely ridiculous but
no I mean to me I wouldn't describe that
as being connected to post-modernism
way or another thank you for your
questions Jackson it's been nice talking
to you